# 🐍 depyf: decompile python functions, from bytecode to source code!

This is used primarily to understand the bytecode produced by PyTorch 2.0 Dynamo (PT 2.0 compiler stack).

# Installation

Stable release on pypi: `pip install depyf`

Nightly code: `pip install git+https://github.com/youkaichao/depyf.git`

# Usage

## Simple Usage:

```python
# obtain a callable object or codeobject
def func():
    print("hello, world!")
# import the `decompile` function
from depyf import decompile
# and decompile it into source code!
print(decompile(func))
```

Example output:

```text
def func():
    print('hello, world!')
    return None
```

The output source code is semantically equivalent to the function, but not syntactically the same. It verbosely adds many details that are hidden in the python code. For example, the above output code explicitly returns `None`, which is typically ignored.

## Used to understand PyTorch generated bytecode

`depyf` works closely with PyTorch. If you have a PyTorch program with `torch.compile`, you only need to add a single line to enable the decompilation of PyTorch bytecode.

```diff
+ import depyf
+ depyf.install()
from typing import List
import torch
from torch import _dynamo as torchdynamo
def my_compiler(gm: torch.fx.GraphModule, example_inputs: List[torch.Tensor]):
    print("my_compiler() called with FX graph:")
    gm.graph.print_tabular()
    return gm.forward  # return a python callable

@torchdynamo.optimize(my_compiler)
def toy_example(a, b):
    x = a / (torch.abs(a) + 1)
    if b.sum() < 0:
        b = b * -1
    return x * b
for _ in range(100):
    toy_example(torch.randn(10), torch.randn(10))
```

Then, run the code with environment variable `export TORCH_LOGS="+dynamo,guards,bytecode"` to get detailed logging information. 

In the long log output, you can see that decompiled bytecode occurs after the modified bytecode of Dynamo.

Hopefully, by using this package, you can understand python bytecode now!

:warning: The above example should be run using pytorch nightly.

# Python Version Coverage

The following python major versions are tested:

- Python 3.12
- Python 3.11
- Python 3.10
- Python 3.9
- Python 3.8
- Python 3.7

You can see the coverage report by simply running `python python_coverage.py`.

# Full Python Syntax Is Not Supported

This package is intended to understand the generated pytorch bytecode, and does not aim to fully cover all the syntax of python. For example, async operations like `async/await` is not supported.

I collected all the [bytecode](https://github.com/youkaichao/depyf/tree/master/pytorch_bytecode) generated by PyTorch when benchmarking timm and huggingface transformers. Then, I have several observations:

- No while loops (no jump back instructions).
- try-except-finally only has try-finally.
- No complicated conditions like `if a and b or c or (d and e)`.

Then, I overfit the decompiler to work for the bytecode generated by pytorch. How? Pure labor work. Implement all bytecode for all the supported python versions, one by one. Yes, that's it.

# Contributions are welcome!

If you find any error in the decompilation, feel free to open issues or pull requests to fix it!
